## Shakespeare Anyone?
Many believe William Shakespeare is considered one of the greatest playwrights in the English language. He is attributed with 38 plays, 154 sonnets, and other works. Even 400 years later, his writings are still be studied in most high schools and colleges in the US and elsewhere. Shakespeare’s complete works are available online at http://shakespeare.mit.edu/. This analysis uses a data set which has Shakespeare character quotes. A lot of people are fascinated by the characters in the Shakespeare plays. The first first part of the analysis creates a Shakespeare character recommender system which is capable of recommending new characters which are similar to a speicific character of interest. This analysis also explores using PCA inference to find important words in character quotes. Lastly, this analysis uses K-Means clustering to try and find one or more character insights. 

The notebook includes custom function code which makes recommendations on new characters to study based on a specific character that a Shakespeare fan likes.  The function is titled “get_nearest_chars” and it takes two arguments: char and num_nearest_chars. The char arg is a string which defines the character for which we are interested in finding similar characters. The num_nearest_chars arg is an integer that defines the total number of nearest characters which we want included in the return list. The get_nearest_chars function perfomrs all of its internal operations in spark and returns a python list containing a string corresponding to each of the nearest characters defined by num_nearest_chars. The function computes the list of characters which are closest to the char arg using L2 Euclidian distance, based on two principle components.  I essentially fixed the number of PCA components to 2 so that we will limit the Euclidian distance to 2 dimensions for this problem.  The get_nearest_chars function rigorously error checks input data to verify that the user is not making illegal requests.

This notebook is written in Spark/Python.
