## Online Learning Outcomes: Impacts of Demographic, Socioeconomic, and Student Behavior

The world is currently undergoing the largest online learning academic endeavor ever recorded.  Around the globe, students and teachers from kindergarten through college, with little warning, have migrated their classrooms from physical to virtual environments.  The shear timeline and volume of this shift is astonishing.  However, will this new-normal compromise the quality of education?  Are there student characteristics or behaviors that will lead to certain educational outcomes?  Does a student’s socioeconomic status impact their ability to succeed in this online environment?  Does the digital divide impact student outcomes?  These are some of the important questions we hope to shed light on with our research. We believe there is an opportunity to show correlations between a student’s demographics, their socioeconomic status, and their educational behaviors. Through regression analysis, the aim of this report is to determine how demographic, regional socioeconomic and academic behavior factors impact a student’s online performance. Specifically, we wanted to know how these factors impact two outcomes: one, a student’s average academic numeric score across all classes; and second, how these factors impact the likelihood a student will withdraw from online education.  As such, we built OLS Regression to inform question one (numeric score) and Logistic Regression to answer question two (likelihood of withdrawal). 
